
## LEXICAL ANALYZER IN PERL             Introduction  to language processing assingnments 1 

## AUTHORS
````
SUDHIR SHARMA   {12041500} cse 2020
MANISH MARUTI SAHLUNKHE {12040840}  cse 2020
````


## Instructions 
- Input have been taken through files. 
- We have tested our lexical analyser using testcases stored in file.
- If you wanted to change the input file (test file) 
    - Go to line number `354` in the lexer.l file.
    - `yyin = fopen("test4.pl","r"); //add test case files here`  change the file name.
- Output will be in  Hashed Table format, will be displayed in your terminal.
- Comments have been shown as `Line comments`.

- KINDLY NOTE THAT 

````
Present Line you are reading in the terminal = current line no. in the test case file - no of "Line comments" you see above .      

````



## Using Flex code:
```
flex lexer.l
gcc lex.yy.c 
./a.out
```

# Lexical Analysis

- We begin the study of lexical-analyzer generators by introducing regular expressions. 
- We show how this notation can be transformed, 
     - first into nondeterministic automata and then into deterministic automata. 
- The latter two notations can be used as input to a "driver", 
     - that is, code which simulates these automata and uses them as a guide to determining the next token.
- This driver and the specification of the automaton form the nucleus of the lexical analyzer.

---



##  The Role of the Lexical Analyzer



lexical analyzer may perform certain other tasks besides identification of lexemes.

- stripping out comments and *whitespace*
- correlating error messages generated by the compiler with the source program. 

In some compilers, the lexical analyzer makes a copy of the source program with the error messages inserted at the appropriate positions.  If the source program uses a macro-preprocessor, the expansion of macros may also be performed by the lexical analyzer.

Sometimes, lexical analyzers are divided into a cascade of two processes:

- a) *Scanning* consists of the simple processes that do not require tokenization of the input, 
     - such as deletion of comments and compaction of consecutive whitespace characters into one.
- b) *Lexical analysis* proper is the more complex portion, where the scanner produces the sequence of tokens as output.

---
## What We Have Done
- Our lexical analyser contain lexer.l file in which we have written the lex code, 5-6 test cases file for testing.
- As we have good knowledge of C/C++. So we have use the techineque of mapping and Hash .We just  define all the Identifiers ,Tokens,Keywords and mappped them with natural number, also we have define String Constant ,Char constant , digits,strings, and many more using Regular expression .
- We have taken the input as a test file using `yyin = fopen("test4.pl","r")`.
- Also used `can, slcline=0, mlc=0, mlcline=0, dq=0, dqline=0;` as a pointer to iterate over the input file .
- If the Keywords, tokens etc get matched, we just returned that identifiers and the line no. using ` yytext, lineno`.
- The output will be in tabular format.
- There are much more we can do  we haven't defined whole keywords we have tried to dfined as much as keywords ,predefined function 


## Quick Overview of Perl
-  Perl Identifiers
    - A Perl variable name starts with either $, @ or % followed by zero or more letters, underscores, and digits (0 to 9).
- Three basic data type
     - `Scalar` Scalars are simple variables. They are preceded by a dollar sign ($). A scalar is either a number, a string, or a reference.
     - `Arrays` Arrays are ordered lists of scalars that you access with a numeric index, which starts with 0. They are preceded by an "at" sign (@).
     - `Hashes` Hashes are unordered sets of key/value pairs that you access using the keys as subscripts. They are preceded by a percent sign (%).

````
We have defined these three data types seperately in the lexer.l file. 
````








# References : 
-[Kumar Shivendhu ](https://github.com/ifding/flex-bison/blob/master/flex-learning-notes.md)
- Geeksforgeeks
- `info flex`
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LpVufkH4gog)
- [notes](https://github.com/ifding/flex-bison/blob/master/flex-learning-notes.md)
